Docs 7491 cluster warning v4.3 cv (#1582)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/creating-and-managing-a-cluster-manually.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: cluster, deploy

This page describes manual creation and configuration of a cluster. There are two ways to create and manage clusters:

* Using Runtime Manager
+
See xref:runtime-manager::managing-servers.adoc#create-a-cluster[Creating and Managing Clusters] for configuration instructions.
* Manually, using a configuration file

> == Considerations

Reviewer: Can we use a more precise title?
How about Cluster Requirements and Restrictions?

> * Do not mix cluster management tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not mix cluster management tools.
```

+

> Manual cluster configuration is not synced to Anypoint Runtime Manager, so any change you make in the platform overrides the cluster configuration files. To avoid this scenario, ensure you use only one method for creating and managing your clusters: either manual configuration or using Anypoint Runtime Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual cluster configuration is not synced to Anypoint Runtime Manager, so any change you make in the platform overrides the cluster configuration files. To avoid this scenario, use only one method for creating and managing your clusters: either manual configuration or configuration using Anypoint Runtime Manager.
```

> * All nodes in a cluster must have the same Runtime Manager Agent version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All nodes in a cluster must have the same Runtime Manager Agent version.
```

To manually change the configuration of a cluster node, follow these steps:

. Stop the node's Mule server.
. Edit the node's `mule-cluster.properties` as desired, then save the file.
. Restart the node's Mule server.

[CAUTION]
====
*Ensure consistency across nodes*

Ensure that the options you apply in the configuration file are valid for all cluster nodes. Failure to do so can cause you to break the cluster configuration and inadvertently disable the cluster.

> ====

Reviewer: Hmm...I don't know about using a notice format AND beginning it with a bold element.

Also, that bold element is a sentence and should end with a period, unless you are treating it as a heading, in which case it should be in all init. caps.

And is consistency the right word, or are we really talking about validity?

How about...:
```suggestion
[CAUTION]
====
Failure to ensure that the options you apply in the configuration file are valid for all cluster nodes can break cluster configuration and disable the cluster.
```

> === Quorum management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Quorum Management
```

When configuring a Quorum Size for your cluster, you need to catch the thrown exception to make some sort of decision (e.g. send an email, stop process, logging, retry strategies, etc)
====

> To enable quorum, the `+mule.cluster.quorumsize+` property has to be placed on the cluster configurations file `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` defining the minimum number of nodes of the cluster to remain in an operational state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable quorum, place in the cluster configurations file `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` the `+mule.cluster.quorumsize+` property, which defines the minimum number of nodes of the cluster to remain in an operational state.
```
I edited this assuming that the property is what defines, but did not at first know if it was the property, or the file, or the user (you). Please reread to ensure accuracy.

=== Object Store Persistence

> You can persistently store JDBC data in a centralized system, accessible from all cluster nodes when using Mule runtime engine on premises. Object store persistence is not currently supported for Mule applications deployed on Runtime Fabric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can persistently store JDBC data in a central system that is accessible by all cluster nodes when using Mule runtime engine on-premises. Object store persistence is not currently supported for Mule applications deployed on Runtime Fabric.
```

[TIP]
--
Check Mule xref:hardware-and-software-requirements.adoc#mule-database-servers[Hardware and Software Requirements] for a list of supported relational database management systems.
--

> To enable object store persistence, you need to create a database and define its configuration values in the `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable object store persistence, create a database and define its configuration values in the `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` file:
```

> . `mule.cluster.jdbcstoreurl`: The JDBC URL for connection to the database

Reviewer: parallelism with following items:
```suggestion
. `mule.cluster.jdbcstoreurl`: JDBC URL for connection to the database
```

. `mule.cluster.jdbcstoreusername`: Database username
. `mule.cluster.jdbcstorepassword`: Database user password
. `mule.cluster.jdbcstoredriver`: JDBC Driver class name

> . `mule.cluster.jdbcstorequerystrategy`:  SQL dialect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. `mule.cluster.jdbcstorequerystrategy`: SQL dialect
```

* MuleSoft recommends that you create a dedicated database/schema that will only be used for JDBC store.
* The database username needs to have permission to:

> ** Create objects in the database, which means `DDL CREATE`, `DROP` for tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Create objects in the database (`DDL CREATE` and `DROP` for tables).
```

> ** DML permissions on the objects it creates (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `SELECT`)

Reviewer: This list item does not grammatically follow its fragment introduction: "permission to" do something.
Does this work?
```suggestion
** Access and manage the objects it creates (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, and `SELECT`)
```

You can monitor the events thrown by the cluster members through the http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/javamanagement-140525.html[JMX technology].

> The JMX monitoring option is disabled by default. In order to enable it, you need to add the `+mule.cluster.jmxenabled+` property to the `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JMX monitoring option is disabled by default. To enable it, add the `+mule.cluster.jmxenabled+` property to the `+{MULE_HOME}/.mule/mule-cluster.properties+` configuration file.
```
